# API Broker

Individual traders and community partners can earn "broker" fees when generating trading volumes!

The "broker" fees scheme is a flexible scheme by which partners can earn fees on individual trades that users make (not only in the initial account creation phase).

# How to earn broker fees

1. Register for the broker program: [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSe7FD6NIk6fzT0tOoOsS6jlQP1wP0RUkdiAcxseKjQzmZxy-A/viewform?usp=preview).
   1. You may generate fees even before being approved, but make sure to submit you application within 2 weeks.
2. Place your "Derive Wallet" address (or the referral code which you registered in the form above) in the `referral_code` field when sending orders via `private/order`. Note, this `referral_code` can be passed in through both the WebSocket and REST APIs.
   1. Brokers may refer users via "referral links" generated by the UX. These will automatically fill the `referral_code` field.
   2. You can find your "Derive Wallet" in "Home" -> "Developers"

For more on integrating with the Derive API see [onboarding](https://docs.derive.xyz/docs/onboard-via-interface)

<br />

# Viewing your rewards

* Go to the Broker dashboard: [https://pro.derive.xyz/broker](https://pro.derive.xyz/broker)
* Type in your referral code (case sensitive)

<br />

# Fee tiers

You can instantly begin earning 10% of the trade fees by using the above method.

| **Broker Level** | **Volume Range** |     | **stakedDRV** | **Fee Share** |
| :--------------: | :--------------: | :-: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
|  Level 5+ Broker |     $500M – ∞    | AND |  ≥ 1,000,000  |      50%      |
|  Level 4 Broker  |     $500M – ∞    |  OR |  ≥ 1,000,000  |      40%      |
|  Level 3 Broker  |   $50M – $500M   |  OR |   ≥ 500,000   |      30%      |
|  Level 2 Broker  |    $5M – $50M    |  OR |   ≥ 500,000   |      20%      |
|  Level 1 Broker  |    $5M – $50M    |     |               |      10%      |

<br />

<br />

Note: fee share will be taken from the **net** trading fees earned by the exchange, which take into account any reduced fee tiers or market maker rebates. The final fee reward for a broker is calculated as:

For taker orders (when the opposite maker has a **positive** fee rate): `fee share * (taker trade fee)`

For taker orders (when the opposite maker has a **negative** fee rate): `fee share * (taker trade fee - maker rebate)`

For maker orders (when **positive**): `fee share * maker trade fee`

For maker orders (when **negative**): `fee share * (taker trade fee - maker rebate)`

<br />

# Builder Fee

On top of broker fees, integrators that are approved for the API Broker program can also add a "builder fee" which is directly passed on to the integrator. See next page for more.

*\*The program outlined above and all numbers provided are subject to change. All applicants are subject to review and approval by the Exchange. The API Broker program is opt-in so all participants must provide all relevant information to be considered for rewards.*

<br />